# EuroLinux 8.10 Release Notes

This version’s code name is Bucharest - the capital of Romania, also known as “Paris of the East”.

## Major changes in EuroLinux 8.10.

## Security

Key security-related highlights:

- **OpenSSL** adds API-level protection for RSA PKCS #1 v1.5 decryption process.
- **libkcapi** delivers new functions and tools.
- **stunnel** provides many new SSL-related features.

## Programming languages, web and database servers

Later versions of the following application are now available:

- **MariaDB 10.11**
- **nginx 1.24**
- **PHP 8.2**
- **PostgreSQL 16**
- **Python 3.12**

The following components have been upgraded:

- **Git LFS** to version 3.4.1
- **Git** to version 2.43.0

## Compilers and development tools
## Updated performance tools and debuggers

The following performance tools and debuggers have been updated:

- **elfutils 0.190**
- **Valgrind 3.22**

## Updated compiler toolsets

The following compiler toolsets have been updated:

- **GCC Toolset** 13
- **Go Toolset** 1.21.0
- **LLVM Toolset** 17.0.6
- **Rust Toolset** 1.75.0

## Java implementations in EuroLinux 8

The EuroLinux 8 AppStream repository includes:

- The `java-21-openjdk` packages, which provide the OpenJDK 21 Java Runtime Environment and the OpenJDK 21 Java Software Development Kit.
- The `java-11-openjdk` packages, which provide the OpenJDK 11 Java Runtime 
Environment and the OpenJDK 11 Java Software Development Kit.
- The `java-17-openjdk` packages, which provide the OpenJDK 17 Java Runtime 
Environment and the OpenJDK 17 Java Software Development Kit.
- The `java-1.8.0-openjdk` packages, which provide the OpenJDK 8 Java Runtime Environment and the OpenJDK 8 Java Software Development Kit.

## Batteries repositories

Batteries repository contains packages that are needed to rebuild the
distribution but are not included in any upstream repositories. Right now,
this repository includes more than 3000 packages for each buildroot.

## Known issues

- The AppStream is is about 15GiB. After long discussion and feedback we
  decided to keep it RHEL like way, where AppStream ISO is so full because it
  can be used to mount repositories used for mirroring and system. We are
  sorry but current state (mostly modularity) make things extremely hard to
  manage without breaking user experience.
- Due to evolution of build process update for **SCAP Security Guide** are delayed now. They are going to be delivered soon.

## Gaia build system

We are currently using Gaia 3.0 and preparing 4.0 with branding kit.

## Container and cloud images

You can use the following publicly available images for EuroLinux 8:

- [EuroLinux 8 Vagrant Boxes (libvirt/VMware Workstation/VirtualBox)](https://app.vagrantup.com/eurolinux-vagrant/boxes/eurolinux-8)
- [EuroLinux 8 Container on the Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/eurolinux/eurolinux-8)
- [EuroLinux 8 Container on the Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/eurolinux/eurolinux-8)

## Additional resources

- [Download EuroLinux ISO](https://fbi.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [Download EuroLinux ISO secondary download](https://fbi2.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [EuroLinux universal migration scripts](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-migration-scripts)
- [EuroLinux Public Request for Change and Bug Tracker](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-distro-bugs-and-rfc)
- [Red Hat 8.10 Release Notes](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/8.10_release_notes/index) parts of our release notes are loosely based on this document.
