# EuroLinux 8.4 Release Notes

## Dynamic programming languages

Later versions of the following components are now available:

-   **Python 3.9** - module `python39` stream 39.
-   **SWIG 4.0** - module `swig` stream 4.0

## Web and Database servers

Later versions of the following components are now available:

-   **Redis 6** - module `redis` stream 6
-   **PostgreSQL 13** - module `postgresql` stream 13
-   **MariaDB 10.5** - module `mariadb` stream 10.5

## Compiler Toolset

The following compiler toolsets have been updated in EL 8.4:

-   **GCC Toolset 10** - software collection `gcc-toolset-10`
-   **LLVM Toolset 11.0.0** - module `llvm-toolset` stream `rhel`
-   **Rust Toolset 1.49.0** - module `rust-toolset` stream `rhel`
-   **Go Toolset 1.15.7** - module `go-toolset` stream `rhel`

There is new a module containing Persistent Memory Development Kit (PMDK):

-   **PMDK** - module `pmkd` stream `1_fileformat_v6`

## Security

- **IPsec VPN** provided by Libreswan now supports TCP encapsulation and
  security labels for IKEv2.
- The **OpenSCAP** packages have been rebased to version 1.3.4,
  **scap-security-guide** has been rebased to version 0.1.54.
- The **fapolicyd** framework now provides integrity checking, and the
  RPM plugin now registers any system update handled by either the
  YUM package manager or the RPM Package Manager.

## General updates and improvements

- EuroLinux 8.4 offers now **Subversion 1.14**. It's packed as the module
  `subversion` with stream 1.14. The 1.10 stream remain the default module that
  contains this package.
- New module `eclipse`. This module has Eclipse IDE but is commonly used
  to build Java related packages.
- The *nmstate* packages provide a library and the *nmstatectl* command-line
  utility to manage host network settings declaratively. Nmstate is a
  network API for hosts and is fully supported in EuroLinux 8.4. The Multi-protocol
  Label Switching (MPLS) is an in-kernel data-forwarding mechanism to route
  traffic flow across enterprise networks.
- The *iproute2* utility introduces three new traffic control actions.
- EuroLinux 8 kernel now uses **proactive compaction** that  regularly
  initiates memory compaction work before a request for an allocation is made.
  Therefore, **latency for specific memory allocation requests is lowered**.
- EuroLinux 8 kernel has now a new implementation of a slab memory controller
  for control groups.
- EuroLinux kernel now supports the time namespace feature. It allows changing
  date and time inside the Linux containers.
- EuroLinux 8 kernel now supports the Error Detection and Correction (EDAC) in
  8th and 9th generation Intel Core Processors.
- There are changes in the pacemaker resource agent - it now can detect
  failures asynchronously and inject a failure into Pacemaker
  immediately without waiting for the following monitor interval.

## How to update from beta

The beta repository has an updated package `el-release`, that contains production
repositories. Upgrading from EuroLinux 8.4 beta to 8.4 is as simple as running:

```
sudo yum update -y el-release
sudo yum update -y
```

## Branded packages

Multiple packages have names changed due to branding, including:

- redhat-backgrounds -> el-backgrounds
- redhat-indexhtml -> el-indexhtml
- redhat-logos -> el-logos
- redhat-logos-httpd -> el-logos-httpd
- redhat-logos-ipa -> el-logos-ipa
- redhat-release -> el-release
- redhat-release-eula -> el-release - we include EULA in release package

All these packages have proper RPM `provides` declaration.

The list of the packages that are changed due to branding includes, among the
others:

- abrt
- anaconda
- anaconda-user-help
- anacondafirefox
- cloud-init
- crash
- httpd
- httpd
- initial-setup
- ipa
- liberport
- libguestfs
- libreoffice
- nginx
- opa-ff
- opa-fm
- openscap
- osindo-db
- python3
- redhat-rpm-config
- scap-security-guide
- skopeo
- sos
- subscription-manager
- thunderbird


## Batteries

Batteries repository contains packages that are needed to rebuild distribution
but are not included in upstream repositories. Right now, this repository
contains more than 2000 packages for each buildroot.

Multiple batteries were updated for this release there including:

- mdds
- meson
- spirv-headers
- fontforge
- multiple python packages
- modules for bootstrapping python39

## Other notable changes

- Because we changed the business model to open core, there is no longer a need
  to use FBI (free base image) repositories as they are a subset of entire
  repositories.  FBI repos are removed from the `el-release` package.
- EuroLinux 8.4 is first version that can use `BaseOS-all`, `AppStream-all` and
  `PowerTools-all` repositories that contain **all** packages produced during
  build process. However, these packages are not supported by upstream or
  EuroLinux.
- EuroLinux by default uses Docker Hub instead of Quay.

## Additional resources

- [Download EuroLinux ISO](https://fbi.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [EuroLinux Public Request for Change and Bug Tracker](https://fbi.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- Roadmap for the project can be found in press notes available on our company
  blog. [Press Notes](https://en.euro-linux.com/blog/).
- [Red Hat 8.4
  Release Notes](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/8.4_release_notes/index)
  parts of our release notes are loosely based on this document.
