# EuroLinux 8.5 Release Notes

EuroLinux 8.5 is the first minor release created in a continuous way. It was
also the first version when we deployed our engineer to remote sites (in most
cases virtual) to provide support for organisations that rebuild RHEL/EuroLinux
from sources with Gaia build system. This version code name is Tirana - the
capital city of Albania.


Below you can find the essential changes in EuroLinux 8.5 release for `x86_64`
architecture. The `aarch64` GA release is slightly delayed. Release notes for
`aarch64` will be provided in a separate document.

## Dynamic programming languages, Web and Database servers

New versions of the following components are now available:

-   **Ruby 3.0** - module `ruby` stream 3.0.
-   **nginx 1.20** - module `nginx` stream 1.20
-   **Nodejs 16** - module `nodejs` stream 16

## Compiler Toolset

The following compiler toolsets have been updated in EL 8.5:

-   **GCC Toolset 11** - software collection `gcc-toolset-11`
-   **LLVM Toolset 12.0.1** - module `llvm-toolset` stream `rhel`
-   **Rust Toolset 1.54.0** - module `rust-toolset` stream `rhel`
-   **Go Toolset 1.16.7** - module `go-toolset` stream `rhel`

## Security

Most of the security features are connected to rebased/updated versions
of the packages. The most crucial security changes include:

- rsyslog - now support OpenSSL
- OpenSCAP framework - added new profiles and multiple changes and enhancements
- cryptopolicies were updated - these system-wide cryptographic policies from this
  version support different policies for different backends (scoped policies)

## High Availability and Resilient Storage

- cmirror was updated to version 2.03.12
- corosync was updated to version 3.1.5
- pacemaker was updated to version 2.1.0
- resource-agents-paf package was added to HA an RS repositories

## General updates and improvements

Among the others, the following packages were updated and enhanced:

- NetworkManager was updated to 1.32.10 from 1.30
- OpenIMP was updated to 2.0.31 from 2.0.29
- acel was updated to 3.1 from 2.8
- bluez was updated to 5.56 from 5.52
- chrony was updated to 4.1 from 3.5
- cockpit was updated to version 251.1 from 238.2
- crypto-policies was updated to 20210617 from 20210209
- dnf was updated to 4.7.0 from 4.4.2
- elfutils were updated to 0.185 from 0.182
- freeipmi was updated to 1.6.8 from 1.6.6
- gnutls was updated to 3.6.16 from 3.6.14
- ibacm was updated to 35.0 from 32.0
- libmodulemd updated to version 2.13.0 from 2.9.4
- libreswan was updated to version 4.4 from 4.3
- main GCC was updated to 8.5.0 from 8.4.1
- opencryptoki updated to version 3.16.0 from 3.15.1
- rsyslog was updated to version 8.2102.0 from 8.1911.0
- sssd was updated  to version 2.5.2 from 2.4.0


## New packages

Among the others, the following packages were added to this release:

- adwaita-qt5
- ansible-collection-microsoft-sql
- ansible-collection-redhat-rhel_mgmt
- ansible-freeipa-tests
- ansible-pcp
- compact-hwloc1
- coreos-installer
- dotnet-build-reference-packages
- dotnet-sdk-3.1-source-built-artifacts
- dotnet-sdk-5.0-source-built-artifacts
- dotnet5.0-build-reference-packages
- eth-tools
- flatpak (i686) included in PowerTools
- java-17-openjdk*
- libadwaita-qt5
- libcap-ng-python3
- libcomps-devel is now included in PowerTools
- libvoikko-devel - is now included in PowerTools
- lpsolve (i686) is now included in PowerTools
- mobile-broadband-provider-info-devel is now included in PowerTools
- modulemd-tools
- pcm
- python3-cloud-what
- python3-libstoragemgmt
- python3-pillow (i686) is now included in PowerTools
- python3-pyghmi
- qt5-qtserialbus-devel is now included in PowerTools
- resource-agents-paf (resilient storage)
- rsyslog-openssl
- samba-vfs-iouring
- sblim-gather
- sblim-gather-provider is now included in PowerTools
- sevctl
- stratisd-dracut
- tesseract
- tss2
- udftools
- unicode-ucd-unihan
- xapian-core and its development packages are now included


## How to update from beta

The beta repository has an updated package `el-release`, that contains production
repositories. Upgrading from EuroLinux 8.5 beta to 8.5 is as simple as running:

```
sudo yum update -y el-release
sudo yum update -y
```

## Branded packages

Multiple packages have names changed due to branding, including:

- redhat-backgrounds -> el-backgrounds
- redhat-indexhtml -> el-indexhtml
- redhat-logos -> el-logos
- redhat-logos-httpd -> el-logos-httpd
- redhat-logos-ipa -> el-logos-ipa
- redhat-release -> el-release
- redhat-release-eula -> el-release - we include EULA in release package

All these packages have proper RPM `provides` declaration.

The list of the packages that are changed due to branding includes, among the
others:

- abrt
- anaconda
- anaconda-user-help
- anacondafirefox
- cloud-init
- crash
- httpd
- initial-setup
- ipa
- libreport
- libguestfs
- libreoffice
- nginx
- opa-ff
- opa-fm
- openscap
- osinfo-db
- python3
- redhat-rpm-config
- scap-security-guide
- skopeo
- sos
- subscription-manager
- thunderbird


## Batteries

Batteries repository contains packages that are needed to rebuild the
distribution but are not included in upstream repositories. Right now, this
repository includes more than 2100 packages for each buildroot.

Multiple batteries were updated for this release there including:

- Bootstraps for rust-toolset
- Bootstraps for go-toolset

## Gaia build system

Gaia build system was updated in all interested parties' environments. We also
changed the rebuild policy. None of our customers was interested in using RHEL
as a buildroot for their own Enterprise Linux forks. It means that EuroLinux
must be released faster, but at the very same time, we can exclusively focus on
providing EuroLinux in the early stages and thus release it faster. We also
decided that the next version will be released asynchronously with more batch
compilation. Synchronization was especially problematic in this release as
there was a lot of holidays in Poland.


## Other notable changes

- EuroLinux 8.5 is the first version that can use `baseos-all`, `appstream-all`
  and `powertools-all`,`high-availability-all`, `resilient-storage-all`
  repositories that contain **all** packages produced during the build process.
  However, these packages are not supported by upstream or EuroLinux. They are
  intended for developers to build they own solutions.
- EuroLinux reverted the previous changes that made DockerHub the default
  container image registry. We observed other RHEL clones and decided that
  keeping default might be more suitable for users.

## Additional resources

- [Download EuroLinux ISO](https://fbi.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [EuroLinux Public Request for Change and Bug Tracker](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-distro-bugs-and-rfc)
- A roadmap for the project can be found in press notes available on our company
  blog. [EuroLinux Roadmap For Q4 2021](https://en.euro-linux.com/blog/eurolinux-roadmap-for-q4-2021/).
- [Red Hat 8.5
  Release Notes](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/8.5_release_notes/index)
  parts of our release notes are loosely based on this document.
