# EuroLinux 8.6 Beta Release Notes

## Dynamic programming languages, Web and Database servers

New versions of the following components are now available:

-   **PHP 8.0** - module `ruby` stream 8.0.
-   **Perl 5.32** - module `perl` stream 5.32

## Compiler Toolset

The following compiler toolsets have been updated in EL 8.6:

TODO

## Security

Most of the security features are connected to rebased/updated versions
of the packages. The most crucial security changes include:

- `semodule` now supports the `--checksum` option for verifying SELinux policy modules versions
- OpenSSL 3.0 support in opencryptoki, among others
- OpenSCAP supports OSBuild Blueprint as a remediation type and several commandline option improvements
- SCAP Security Guide - `authselect` for rules that harden PAM stack and more precise `xccdf_org.ssgproject.content_enable_fips_mode` rule implementation among others

## High Availability and Resilient Storage

TODO

## General updates and improvements

Among the others, the following packages were updated and enhanced:

- 389-ds-base (Directory Server) was updated to 1.4.3.28
- Libreswan was updated to 4.5
- OpenSCAP was updated to 1.3.6
- SCAP Security Guide was updated to 0.1.60
- authselect was updated to 1.2.2
- bind was updated to 9.16.23
- fapolicyd was updated to 1.1
- libcap was updated to 2.48
- lsvpd was updated to 1.7.13
- opencryptoki was updated to 3.17.0
- pcsc-lite was updated to 1.9.5
- powerpc-utils was updated to 1.3.9
- samba was updated to 4.15.5

## New packages

Among the others, the following packages were added to this release:

- TODO

## Branded packages

Multiple packages have names changed due to branding, including:

- redhat-backgrounds -> el-backgrounds
- redhat-indexhtml -> el-indexhtml
- redhat-logos -> el-logos
- redhat-logos-httpd -> el-logos-httpd
- redhat-logos-ipa -> el-logos-ipa
- redhat-release -> el-release
- redhat-release-eula -> el-release - we include EULA in release package

All these packages have proper RPM `provides` declaration.

The list of the packages that are changed due to branding includes, among the
others:

- abrt
- anaconda
- anaconda-user-help
- anacondafirefox
- cloud-init
- crash
- httpd
- initial-setup
- ipa
- libreport
- libguestfs
- libreoffice
- nginx
- opa-ff
- opa-fm
- openscap
- osinfo-db
- python3
- redhat-rpm-config
- scap-security-guide
- skopeo
- sos
- subscription-manager
- thunderbird


## Batteries

Batteries repository contains packages that are needed to rebuild the
distribution but are not included in upstream repositories. Right now, this
repository includes more than 2100 packages for each buildroot.

Multiple batteries were updated for this release there including:

- Bootstraps for TODO

## Gaia build system

Gaia build system was updated in all interested parties' environments. We also
changed the rebuild policy. None of our customers was interested in using RHEL
as a buildroot for their own Enterprise Linux forks. It means that EuroLinux
must be released faster, but at the very same time, we can exclusively focus on
providing EuroLinux in the early stages and thus release it faster. We also
decided that the next version will be released asynchronously with more batch
compilation. Synchronization was especially problematic in this release as
there was a lot of holidays in Poland.


## Other notable changes

TODO

## Additional resources

- [Download EuroLinux ISO](https://fbi.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [EuroLinux Public Request for Change and Bug Tracker](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-distro-bugs-and-rfc)
- A roadmap for the project can be found in press notes available on our company
  blog. [EuroLinux Roadmap For Q? 2022](TODO)
- [Red Hat 8.6
  Release Notes](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8-beta/html/8.6_release_notes/index)
  parts of our release notes are loosely based on this document.
