# EuroLinux 8.8 Beta Release Notes

This version’s code name is Sofia - the capital city of Bulgaria. The Beta
version will allow us to provide EuroLinux 8.8 faster. 

Major changes in EuroLinux 8.8 Beta:

## Dynamic programming languages, Web and Database servers

New versions of the following components are now available:

- New: **Python 3.11** - available as a "normal set" of the rpm packages
- New: **Nginx 1.22** - available as the module
- New: **PostgreSQL 15** - available as the module
- New: **Swig 4.1** - available as the module
- New: **jaxb 4** - available as the module

The following components have been upgraded:

- **Git** 2.39.1
- **Git LFS** 3.2.0

## Updated performance monitoring tools

The following performance monitoring tools have been updated in EuroLinux 8.8:

- **PCP** 5.3.7
- **Grafana** 7.5.15

## Kernel version

EuroLinux 8.8 Beta is distributed with the kernel version 4.18.0-477.

## Compilers and development tools

The following performance tools and debuggers have been updated in EuroLinux 8.8:

- **Valgrind** 3.19
- **SystemTap** 4.8
- **Dyninst** 12.1.0
- **elfutils** 0.188

## Compiler Toolset

The following compiler toolsets have been updated in EL 8.8:

- GCC Toolset 12
- LLVM Toolset 15.0.7
- Rust Toolset 1.66
- Go Toolset 1.19.4

## Security

The most crucial security changes include:

- The Libreswan IPsec implementation was rebased to version 4.9.
- Rsyslog TLS-encrypted logging now supports multiple CA files.
- The systemd-socket-proxyd service now runs in its own SELinux domain due to an update to the SELinux policy.
- The OpenSCAP security compliance utility was rebased to version 1.3.7.
- With the fapolicyd software framework, you can now filter the RPM database.

## General updates and improvements

- Podman now supports events for auditing.
- The Container Tools packages have been updated.
- The Aardvark and Netavark networks stack now supports custom DNS server selection.
- Podman Quadlet is now available as a Technology Preview.
- The *container-tools:3.0* module stream has been deprecated.
- The CNI network stack has been deprecated.

## New packages

Among the others, the following packages were added to `os` repository for this
release:

- bind9.16-dnssec-utils
- cifs-utils- -devel
- ecj
- ipxe-bootimgs-aarch64
- libnetapi
- libsndfile-utils
- libtraceevent
- libtraceevent-devel
- libtracefs
- libtracefs-devel
- libwpe
- libwpe-devel
- libxdp-devel
- libxdp-static
- lmdb
- mpdecimal
- mpdecimal++
- mpdecimal-devel
- mpdecimal-doc
- nss_wrapper-libs
- perl-Mail-AuthenticationResults
- procps-ng-devel
- python3-bind9.16
- python3-scour
- python3.11
- python3.11-Cython
- python3.11-PyMySQL
- python3.11-attrs
- python3.11-cffi
- python3.11-charset-normalizer
- python3.11-cryptography
- python3.11-debug
- python3.11-devel
- python3.11-idle
- python3.11-idna
- python3.11-iniconfig
- python3.11-libs
- python3.11-lxml
- python3.11-mod_wsgi
- python3.11-numpy
- python3.11-numpy-f2py
- python3.11-packaging
- python3.11-pip
- python3.11-pip-wheel
- python3.11-pluggy
- python3.11-ply
- python3.11-psycopg2
- python3.11-psycopg2-debug
- python3.11-psycopg2-tests
- python3.11-pybind11
- python3.11-pybind11-devel
- python3.11-pycparser
- python3.11-pyparsing
- python3.11-pysocks
- python3.11-pytest
- python3.11-pyyaml
- python3.11-requests
- python3.11-rpm-macros
- python3.11-scipy
- python3.11-semantic_version
- python3.11-setuptools
- python3.11-setuptools-rust
- python3.11-setuptools-wheel
- python3.11-six
- python3.11-test
- python3.11-tkinter
- python3.11-urllib3
- python3.11-wheel
- python3.11-wheel-wheel
- rtla
- samba-dc-libs
- samba-dcerpc
- texlive-translator
- tomcat
- tomcat-admin-webapps
- tomcat-docs-webapp
- tomcat-el-3.0-api
- tomcat-jsp-2.3-api
- tomcat-lib
- tomcat-servlet-4.0-api
- tomcat-webapps
- tpm2-pkcs11
- tpm2-pkcs11-tools
- wpebackend-fdo
- wpebackend-fdo-devel

## Branded packages

Multiple packages have names changed due to branding, including:

- redhat-backgrounds -> el-backgrounds
- redhat-indexhtml -> el-indexhtml
- redhat-logos -> el-logos
- redhat-logos-httpd -> el-logos-httpd
- redhat-logos-ipa -> el-logos-ipa
- redhat-release -> el-release
- redhat-release-eula -> el-release - we include EULA in release package

All these packages have proper RPM `provides` declaration.

The list of the packages that are changed due to branding includes, among others:

- abrt
- anaconda
- anaconda-user-help
- cloud-init
- crash
- firefox
- httpd
- initial-setup
- ipa
- libguestfs
- libreoffice
- libreport
- nginx
- opa-ff
- opa-fm
- openscap
- osinfo-db
- python3
- redhat-rpm-config
- scap-security-guide
- sos
- subscription-manager
- thunderbird

## Removed packages

The following packages were removed:

- rhc and related packages
- insights-client and related packages

## Batteries

Batteries repository contains packages that are needed to rebuild the
distribution but are not included in any upstream repositories. Right now,
this repository includes more than 3000 packages for each buildroot.

About 150 packages were updated for x86_64 buildroot alone. We also added some
of the packages (like python3.11 for i686) to the publicly available **open
buildroots**.

## Known issues

- Due to compose error LibreOffice is available in the older version than one
  available in the RHEL 8.8 beta. The new version will land in main repos shortly.

## Gaia build system

We are currently using Gaia 3.0 beta.

## Additional resources

- [Download EuroLinux ISO](https://fbi.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/beta)
- [EuroLinux Public Request for Change and Bug Tracker](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-distro-bugs-and-rfc)
- [Red Hat 8.8 beta Release
  Notes](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8-beta/html/8.8_release_notes/index) (parts of our release notes are loosely based on this document).
