# EuroLinux 9 Release Notes

## Technical changes between EuroLinux 9 and 8

### Installer and image creation

In EuroLinux 9.0 you can now use a standalone smart card to both authenticate
yourself and gain additional privileges via `sudo`.

For the typical cases of installing EuroLinux with a medium such as a disk
interactively a Quality of Life tweak has been implemented: the Anaconda
installer will now automatically activate a network connection if applicable
(will try to obtain an address via DHCP).

You can now optionally permit a password-based root login via SSH or completely
lock the root account in any case.  
(While the former is not recommended due to security and disabled in EuroLinux
9 by default, there are valid use cases which we support with this single easy
switch)

### Administrative tools

If you want to rename a network interface, it is recommended that you use
systemd link files. Check `man 5 systemd.link` for more information.

Alternatively udev rules may be used. If you need to use the `ifcfg` tool,
please install the `initscripts` package first since it is not installed by
default.

### Security

EuroLinux 9 provides OpenSSL version 3.0.0. Among other things, the concept of
*providers* has been added, which means that different programs can use
different security algorithms depending on their needs.  You can imagine a
situation where you have implemented solutions where one needs to use FIPS
mode, while others need to maintain compliance with less secure policies.

This new version comes with a few security-related implications. The `TLS-1.3`
protocol requires that a `PKCS#11` token supports `raw RSA` or `RSA-PSS`
signatures.

If this is applicable to your scenario, please configure your software to use
TLS up to `TLS-1.2`. Additionally please edit the file
`/etc/pki/tls/openssl.cnf` and add this snippet at the very end of the
`[ crypto_policy ]` section:

```
SignatureAlgorithms = RSA+SHA256:RSA+SHA512:RSA+SHA384:ECDSA+SHA256:ECDSA+SHA512:ECDSA+SHA384
MaxProtocol = TLSv1.2
```

### Developer tools

Some of the newest and most reliable technology stacks for developers are
available in the repositories. These include:

- Ant 1.10
- GCC 11.2
- Git 2.31
- Go 1.17.5
- LLVM 13
- Maven 3.6.3
- NodeJS 16
- OpenJDK 17.0.1
- PHP 8.0
- Perl 5.32
- Python 3.9
- Ruby 3.0
- Rust 1.56
- SVN 1.14

The EuroLinux 9 platform ships glibc 2.34, which will provide 10 years of
business-class stability support and the same amount of software binary
interface compatibility time. As a result, programs written today will work the
same way 10 years from now.

### Web servers and database engines

The following products are now available in our repositories:

HTTP servers:

- Apache HTTPD 2.4
- nginx 1.20

Proxy servers:

- Squid 5.1
- Varnish Cache 6.5

Database engines:

- MariaDB 10.5.12
- MySQL 8.0
- PostgreSQL 13
- Redis 6.2.6

### Security Policies - SCAP Security Guide

The SCAP Security Guide has been updated to version 0.1.57 and made a number of changes
from the counterpart we provide in EuroLinux 8:

- Removed deprecated SCAP 1.2 source data streams.
- Removed Bash profile remediation scripts to encourage more secure practices.
- Although references for EuroLinux 8 have been left in place, the current
  package is designed for EuroLinux 9 - please kindly use packages for older
  releases if you need to check them for security policies.

### GNOME 40

GNOME has been updated to GNOME 40, a major step forward from EuroLinux 8's
GNOME 3.32.2 , which includes many new features.

GNOME 40 includes a new and improved style, including the user interface, icons
and desktop, The *Activities* look and feel provides a better experience when
working, launching applications and arranging your personal workspace -
workspaces are now arranged horizontally and the window overview and
application grid are available vertically.

Many *Quality of Life* improvements have also been added, including:

- running the software using a separate graphics card by right-clicking and
  selecting the appropriate option
- The ability to mute notifications by selecting *Do not disturb*, which will
  appear as a separate button in the notification
- Each screen can use a different refresh rate
- The *Activities* program allows you to group application icons into folders
  using a *drag-and-drop* method
- provide the ability to fractionally scale the display

