# EuroLinux 9.1 Release Notes

## Major changes in EuroLinux 9.1.

## Security

EuroLinux 9.1 introduces Keylime, a remote machine attestation tool using the
trusted platform module (TPM) technology. With Keylime, you can verify and
continuously monitor the integrity of remote machines.

SELinux user-space packages have been upgraded to version 3.4. 

**Changes**:

- Improved relabeling performance through parallel relabeling
- Support for SHA-256 in the *semodule* tool
- New policy utilities in the *libsepol-utils* package

## Command-line tools

The following command-line tools have been updated in EuroLinux 9.1:

- *ppc64-diag* to version 2.7.8
- *opencryptoki* to version 3.18.0
- *lsvpd* to version 1.7.14
- *powerpc-utils* to version 1.3.10
- *libvpd* to version 2.2.9

EuroLinux 9.1 introduces a new package *xmlstarlet* with which you can
parse, query, validate, transform and edit XML files.

## Installer and image creation

Image builder on-premise now supports:

- Uploading images to GCP.
- Customizing the /boot partition.
- Pushing a container image directly to a registry.
- Users can now customize their blueprints during the image creation process.


## Infrastructure services

The following infrastructure services tools have been updated in EuroLinux
9.1:

- *chrony* to version 4.2
- *unbound* to version 1.16.2
- *frr* to version 8.2.2


## Networking

NetworkManager supports migrating connection profiles from the deprecated
*ifcfg* format to keyfile format.

The MultiPath TCP (MPTCP) code in the kernel has been updated and upstream
Linux 5.19.

NetworkManager now clearly indicates that WEP support is not available in
EuroLinux 9.

## Programming languages, web and database servers

Later versions of the following components are now available as new module
streams:

- *PHP* 8.1
- *Ruby* 3.1
- *Node.js* 18

The Apache HTTP Server has been updated to version 2.4.53.

# Compilers and development tools

## Updated system toolchain

The following system toolchain components have been updated in EuroLinux 9.1:

- *binutils* 2.35.2
- *GCC* 11.2.1
- *glibc* 2.34

## Updated performance tools and debuggers

The following performance tools and debuggers have been updated in EuroLinux
9.1:

- *GDB* 10.2
- *Valgrind* 3.19
- *SystemTap* 4.7
- *Dyninst* 12.1.0
- *elfutils* 0.187

## Updated performance monitoring tools

The following performance monitoring tools have been updated in EuroLinux 9.1:

- *Grafana* 7.5.13
- *PCP* 5.3.7

## Updated compiler toolsets

The following compiler toolsets have been updated in EuroLinux 9.1:

- *GCC Toolset* 12
- *Go Toolset* 1.18
- *Rust Toolset* 1.62
- *LLVM Toolset* 14.0.6

# Java implementations in EuroLinx 9.1

EuroLinux 9 AppStream repository includes:

- *java-11-openjdk* - OpenJDK 11 Java Runtime Environment and the OpenJDK 11
  Java Software Development Kit.
- *java-17-openjdk* - OpenJDK 17 Java Runtime Environment and the OpenJDK 17
  Java Software Development Kit.
- *java-1.8.0-openjdk* - OpenJDK 8 Java Runtime Environment and the OpenJDK 8
  Java Software Development Kit.


## Batteries repositories

The battery repository is available for customers with Golden Key and Gaia
subscriptions. There are about 1000 packages that are not part of any build (so
they are not included in EuroLinux Open Build roots) but are required to
rebuild EuroLinux/Custom Fork from RHEL or Eurolinux sources.

## EuroLinux 9 for ARM

EuroLinux for ARM will use an updated Gaia rebuild stack. We decided that this
is an ideal testbed because ARM64 is not as popular as x86_64 architecture. It
also allowed us to create x86_64, open build roots for i686 and x86_64 and
batteries repos faster. Because creating EuroLinux 9 beta took us about four
weeks, ARM should take about two weeks, after updating Gaia Stack, as we have
all the necessary batteries and build orders figured out.

## Gaia updates

New Gaia used to rebuild EuroLinux 9 for ARM64 is even more distributed.

There are new commands in Gaia:

- new automodule-update Gaia subcommand, that well - automatically updates
  modules. No more manual config changes for modules
- new automodule-merge Gaia subcommand. This command uses multiple input files
  (RH/EuroLinux modules files + result build + custom files) to create an updated
  module definition

Other notable changes:

- Striga now creates `automodule-*` commands
- Striga can create `--partial` commands for module rebuild
- Vardoger now supports config files that allows ignoring chosen tests/levels
  for selected RPMs
- A lot of new configs for EuroLinux 9


We will also update hardware requirements for rebuild, including reference
build servers for ARM and PowerPC. The rebuilds will start with the release of
EuroLinux 9. It will also require updated infrastructure.

## Container and cloud images

You can use the following publicly available images for EuroLinux 9 beta

- [EuroLinux 9 Vagrant Boxes (libvirt/VMware Workstation/VirtualBox) ](https://app.vagrantup.com/eurolinux-vagrant/boxes/eurolinux-9)
- [EuroLinux 9 Container on the Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/eurolinux/eurolinux-9)
- [EuroLinux 9 Container on the Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/eurolinux/eurolinux-9)

## Additional resources

- [Download EuroLinux ISO](https://fbi.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [Download EuroLinux ISO secondary download](https://fbi2.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [EuroLinux universal migration scripts](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-migration-scripts)
- [EuroLinux Public Request for Change and Bug Tracker](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-distro-bugs-and-rfc)
- [Red Hat 9.1
  Release Notes](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/9.1_release_notes/index)
  parts of our release notes are loosely based on this document.

