# EuroLinux 9.2 Release Notes

## Major changes in EuroLinux 9.2.

## Security

Key security-related highlights:

- The OpenSSL secure communications library was rebased to version 3.0.7.
- SELinux user-space packages were updated to version 3.5.
- Keylime was rebased to version 6.5.2
- OpenSCAP was rebased to version 1.3.7.
- SCAP Security Guide was rebased to version 0.1.66.
- A new rule for idle session termination was added to SCAP.
- Clevis now accepts external tokens.
- Rsyslog TLS-encrypted logging now supports multiple CA files.
- Rsyslog privileges are limited to minimize security exposure.

## Programming languages, web and database servers

Later versions of the following application are now available:

- **Python** 3.11
- **PostgreSQL** 15
- **nginx** 1.22

The following components have been upgraded:

- **Git LFS** to version 3.2.0
- **Git** to version 2.39.1

## Compilers and development tools

The following system toolchain components have been updated in EuroLinux 9.2:

- **GCC** 11.3.1
- **glibc** 2.34
- **binutils** 2.35.2

# Updated performance tools and debuggers

The following performance tools and debuggers have been updated in EuroLinux 9.2:

- **elfutils** 0.188
- **GDB** 10.2
- **Valgrind** 3.19
- **SystemTap** 4.8
- **Dyninst** 12.1.0

## Updated performance monitoring tools

The following performance monitoring tools have been updated in EuroLinux 9.2:

- **PCP** 6.0.1
- **Grafana** 9.0.9
- Updated compiler toolsets

The following compiler toolsets have been updated in EuroLinux 9.2:

- **GCC Toolset** 12
- **Go Toolset** 1.19.6
- **LLVM Toolset** 15.0.7
- **Rust Toolset** 1.66

## Installer and image creation

Key highlights for image builder:

- Image builder on-prem now offers a new and improved way to create blueprints
  and images in the image builder web console.
- Creating customized files and directories in the /etc directory is now supported.

## Java implementations in EuroLinux 9

The EuroLinux 9 AppStream repository includes:

The ```java-11-openjdk``` packages, which provide the OpenJDK 11 Java Runtime
Environment and the OpenJDK 11 Java Software Development Kit.
The ```java-17-openjdk``` packages, which provide the OpenJDK 17 Java Runtime
Environment and the OpenJDK 17 Java Software Development Kit.
The ```java-1.8.0-openjdk packages```, which provide the OpenJDK 8 Java Runtime
Environment and the OpenJDK 8 Java Software Development Kit.

## Containers

Notable changes include:

- Podman now supports events for auditing.
- Clients for sigstore signatures with Fulcio and Rekor are now available.
- Podman Quadlet is now available as a Technology Preview.
- Skopeo now supports generating sigstore key pairs.
- The Container Tools packages have been updated.
- Toolbox is now available.
- The CNI network stack has been deprecated.
- The Aardvark and Netavark networks stack now supports custom DNS server selection.

## Known issues

Due to changes in the build process, some java packages (```java-1.8.0-openjdk```, 
```java-11-openjdk```, ```java-17-openjdk```) are not updated jet (TODO).

## Batteries repositories

The battery repository is available for customers with Golden Key and Gaia
subscriptions. There are about 330 packages that are not part of any build (so
they are not included in EuroLinux Open Build roots) but are required to
rebuild EuroLinux/Custom Fork from RHEL or Eurolinux sources.

## EuroLinux 9 for ARM

EuroLinux for ARM will use an updated Gaia rebuild stack. We decided that this
is an ideal testbed because ARM64 is not as popular as x86_64 architecture. It
also allowed us to create x86_64, open build roots for i686 and x86_64 and
batteries repos faster. Because creating EuroLinux 9 took us about four
weeks, ARM should take about two weeks, after updating Gaia Stack, as we have
all the necessary batteries and build orders figured out.

## Gaia updates

New Gaia used to rebuild EuroLinux 9 for ARM64 is even more distributed.

There are new commands in Gaia:
- new automodule-update Gaia subcommand, that well - automatically updates
  modules. No more manual config changes for modules
- new automodule-merge Gaia subcommand. This command uses multiple input files
  (RH/EuroLinux modules files + result build + custom files) to create an updated
  module definition

Other notable changes:
- Striga now creates `automodule-*` commands
- Striga can create `--partial` commands for module rebuild
- Vardoger now supports config files that allows ignoring chosen tests/levels for selected RPMs
- A lot of new configs for EuroLinux 9

We will also update hardware requirements for rebuild, including reference
build servers for ARM and PowerPC. The rebuilds will start with the release of
EuroLinux 9. It will also require updated infrastructure.

## Container and cloud images

You can use the following publicly available images for EuroLinux 9
- [EuroLinux 9 Vagrant Boxes (libvirt/VMware Workstation/VirtualBox)](https://app.vagrantup.com/eurolinux-vagrant/boxes/eurolinux-9)
- [EuroLinux 9 Container on the Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/eurolinux/eurolinux-9)
- [EuroLinux 9 Container on the Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/eurolinux/eurolinux-9)

## Additional resources

- [Download EuroLinux ISO](https://fbi.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [Download EuroLinux ISO secondary download](https://fbi2.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [EuroLinux universal migration scripts](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-migration-scripts)
- [EuroLinux Public Request for Change and Bug Tracker](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-distro-bugs-and-rfc)
- [Red Hat 9.2 Release Notes](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/9.2_release_notes/index) parts of our release notes are loosely based on this document.
