# EuroLinux 9.3 Release Notes

This version's code name is Riga - the capital of Latvia.

## Major changes in EuroLinux 9.3.

## Security

Key security-related highlights:

- **Keylime** was rebased to version 7.3.0.
- OpenSSH was further migrated from the less secure SHA-1 message digest.
- The **pcsc-lite-ccid** USB Chip/Smart Card Interface Device(CCID)) and Integrated Circuit Card Device (ICCD) driver was rebased to version 1.5.2.
- **SEtools**, the collection of graphical tools, command-line tools, and libraries for SELinux policy analysis, was rebased to version 4.4.3.
- **OpenSCAP** was rebased to version 1.3.8.

## Programming languages, web and database servers

Later versions of the following application are now available:

- **Redis 7**
- **Node.js 20**

Furthermore, the **Apache HTTP Server** has been updated to version 2.4.57.

The following components have been upgraded:

- **Git LFS** to version 3.2.0
- **Git** to version 2.39.1

## Compilers and development tools

The following system toolchain components have been updated:

- **GCC** 11.4.1

# Updated performance tools and debuggers

The following performance tools and debuggers have been updated:

- **Valgrind 3.21**
- **SystemTap 4.9**
- **elfutils 0.189**

## Updated performance monitoring tools

The following performance monitoring tools have been updated:

- **PCP** 6.0.5
- **Grafana** 9.2.10

## Updated compiler toolsets

The following compiler toolsets have been updated in:

- **GCC Toolset** 13
- **LLVM Toolset** 16.0.6
- **Rust Toolset** 1.71.1
- **Go Toolset** 1.20.10

## Java implementations in EuroLinux 9

The EuroLinux 9 AppStream repository includes:

- The `java-21-openjdk` packages, which provide the OpenJDK 21 Java Runtime Environment and the OpenJDK 21 Java Software Development Kit.
- The `java-11-openjdk` packages, which provide the OpenJDK 11 Java Runtime
- Environment and the OpenJDK 11 Java Software Development Kit.
- The `java-17-openjdk` packages, which provide the OpenJDK 17 Java Runtime
- Environment and the OpenJDK 17 Java Software Development Kit.
- The `java-1.8.0-openjdk packages`, which provide the OpenJDK 8 Java Runtime
- Environment and the OpenJDK 8 Java Software Development Kit.

## Known issues

Due to evolution of build process updates for **Java 21 OpenJDK** and **SCAP Security Guide** are delayed now. They are going to be delivered soon.

## Batteries repositories

The battery repository is available for customers with Golden Key and Gaia
subscriptions. There are about 330 packages that are not part of any build (so
they are not included in EuroLinux Open Build roots) but are required to
rebuild EuroLinux/Custom Fork from RHEL or Eurolinux sources.

## Container and cloud images

You can use the following publicly available images for EuroLinux 9
- [EuroLinux 9 Vagrant Boxes (libvirt/VMware Workstation/VirtualBox)](https://app.vagrantup.com/eurolinux-vagrant/boxes/eurolinux-9)
- [EuroLinux 9 Container on the Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/eurolinux/eurolinux-9)
- [EuroLinux 9 Container on the Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/eurolinux/eurolinux-9)

## Additional resources

- [Download EuroLinux ISO](https://fbi.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [Download EuroLinux ISO secondary download](https://fbi2.cdn.euro-linux.com/isos/)
- [EuroLinux universal migration scripts](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-migration-scripts)
- [EuroLinux Public Request for Change and Bug Tracker](https://github.com/EuroLinux/eurolinux-distro-bugs-and-rfc)
- [Red Hat 9.3 Release Notes](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html-single/9.3_release_notes/index) parts of our release notes are loosely based on this document.
